Technical Datasheet
FLEXIBLE PU SEALANT
One-component moisture curing polyurethane sealant.
Description Sealant application
One-component moisture curing polyurethane sealant
1) We cut the nozzle slantwise to form an opening
in the form of thixotropic paste. After application, in
proportional to the joint width.
contact with air, the sealant is vulcanised to an elastic
2) We put cartridge/sausage into the hand- or air gun
and cohesive mass.
and we apply the sealant in the joint.
3) We smooth the surface of the uncured sealant with a
Physical properties
spatula, so as to form a slightly negative crescent.
For good performance it is essential that the sealant be
• Elastic performance and movement capability.
only bonded to the two facing sides of the joint. To
• Adhering ability to dissimilar substrates.
achieve this install a backup material (closed cell
• Easy application at temperatures from +5 to
ο polyethylene or open cell polyurethane foam). Apply the
+40 C.
sealant in a continuous operation making sure all air
• Very good resistance to aging (UV and moisture).
pockets or voids are eliminated. Tool the sealant with
• High mechanical strength.
light pressure to spread the material against the joint
ο
• Service temperature: -40 to +90 C
surfaces. This operation should be made with a dry
• Paintable.
spatula before skin formation occurs.
• Resistant to diluted acids, common chemicals,
Excess uncured sealant should be wiped and cleaned
detergents petrochemicals and mineral oils.
with a commercial solvent such as xylene or white spirit;
cured sealant can only be removed by abrasion.
Application fields
Technical properties
It is recommended for the sealing and bonding between
similar and dissimilar substrates in traditional masonry,
a. Unvulcanized Rubber:
civil and industrial applications, light and heavy
• Consistency: non-sag
prefabrications, interior decorating etc. indoors and
• Skin forming time: 120-240 min (23 oC, 50% RH)
outdoors, in all kinds of building materials such as • Curing speed: 2-3 mm/1 st day (23 oC, 50% RH)
concrete, aluminum, steel, galvanized steel, wood, glass, • Specific Gravity: 1.25
natural or artificial stones etc. It is also used as b. Vulcanized Rubber:
adhesive for these materials. • SHORE A - Hardness: 30±5
• Movement capability: 25%
Application instructions • Ability to return: 90%
• Tensile strength (ISO 8339): 0,82 N/mm2
Joint preparation: The joint faces to be bonded must be • Modulus at 100% elongation (ISO 8339): 0,41
N/mm2
clean, dry and free from dust, oil, grease, old sealant
• Elongation at break (ISO 8339): 450 %
and any traces of contaminant, which may affect
adhesion. Surfaces should be degreased with solvent
Packaging
using a clean cloth. To remove dust, use oil-free
compressed air.
In paper carton with 25 aluminium cartridges of 310ml
Joint dimensions: The movement capability of sealant
or 15 aluminium sausages 0.6 Lt.
as well as local regulations must be considered. Joint
width should be twice the depth when the width is Shelf life
bigger than 20mm and and equal to the depth when
the width is smaller than 20mm. The width of the joints 12 months minimum when stored in places with normal
should not be less than 5 and bigger than 40mm. temperature and humidity.
EN-TDS BAUER_Flexible PU Sealant_11.04.2017
Notes
Technical details, properties, recommendations and
information on BAUER products are supplied in good faith.
They are based on the company's research and experience,
provided that they are stored and applied under normal
conditions. As the method of using materials as well as project
and environment conditions are beyond the control of the
company in each individual application setting, the product
user is held solely responsible for the result of application. No
responsibility under any legitimate relationship can be
substantiated against the company, based on the information
set out hereunder. Product users are advised to refer to the
latest revision of the technical manuals available.
Other information
BAUER BUILDING TECHNOLOGIES
Megara Industrial Estate, Attica
Tel: 210 5744222
Fax: 210 5740777
Email: info@netbauer.com
http// www.netbauer.com
Frankfurt, Reg. No 312310 QM
Qualitätsmanagementsystem
Zertifiziert nach DIN EN ISO 9001
Frankfurt, Reg. No 312310 QM
Qualitätsmanagementsystem
Zertifiziert nach DIN EN ISO 9001
EN-TDS BAUER_Flexible PU Sealant_11.04.2017
