TECHNICAL
DATA SHEET
REVISION | 27-06-2024
BOSS® PU 25 POLYURETHANE SEALANT
TECHNICAL DATA
Basis Polyurethane
Consistency Stable paste
Curing System Moisture curing
Density 1.38 g/ml
Skin formation time* (23°C/50% R.H.) 45 min
Curing speed* (23°C/50% R.H.) 4 mm/24h
Flow, Sag, or Slump (mm) Nil
Hardness, Shore A points** (ISO 868) 35 ± 5
Tensile Strength** (ISO 37) 2.30 N/mm²
Elongation at break** (ISO 37) 850 %
Maximum allowed distortion (ISO 11600) ± 20 %
Temperature resistance** -30 °C → 90 °C
Application temperature 5 °C → 35 °C
* These values may vary depending on environmental factors such as temperature, moisture, and type of substrates.
** This information relates to fully cured product.
Description Shelf life
BOSS® PU 25 is a high-performance, one-component, 12 months in unopened packaging in a cool and dry
polyurethane-based, non-sag elastomeric sealant storage place at temperatures between +5°C and
used in construction, and automobile industry. +25°C.
Properties Substrates
Very easy to apply All types of metals. There is no adhesion on PE, PP,
Permanently elastic after curing PTFE (Teflon®) and bituminous substrates. We
Excellent resistance to UV radiation recommend a preliminary adhesion and compatibility
Very good adhesion on various substrate test on every surface.
Excellent resistance to wide range of chemicals Nature: Rigid, clean, dry, free of dust and grease.
Surface preparation: BOSS® PU 25 has a good
Applications
adhesion to most substrates. All smooth surfaces can
be treated with Surface Activator.
Versatile Industrial application
Provides reliable bonding and sealing for vibrating
Application Method
assembly such as vehicle body work, caravans,
Application method: With a manual, pneumatic or
and containers.
accu caulking gun.
Ideal for securely bonding upright components
Cleaning: Clean with Boss cleaner immediately after
Effectively replaces traditional welds or spot welds
use
Finishing: With a soapy solution or finishing solution
Packaging
before skinning.
Colour: White, black, grey. Repair: With the same material.
Packaging: 600 ml sausage.
PAGE 1 OF 2
TECHNICAL
DATA SHEET
REVISION | 27-06-2024
BOSS® PU 25 POLYURETHANE SEALANT
Health and Safety Recommendations
Take the usual labour hygiene into account.Consult
label and material safety data sheet for more
information.
Remarks
BOSS® PU 25 is paintable with most waterbased
paints, however due to the large number of paints
and varnishes available we strongly suggest a
compatibility test before appication.
BOSS® PU 25 can not be used as a glazing sealant.
Do not use in applications where continuous water
immersion is possible.
It is recommended to do a compatibility test prior to
application.
BOSS® PU 25 has a good UV resistance but can
discolour under extreme conditions or after very
long UV exposure.
Do not apply or allow to cure in the presence of
uncured silicone sealants, alcohol - or other solvent
cleaners.
When using different reactive joint sealants, the
first joint sealant must be completely hardened
before the next one is applied.
Environmental clauses
Leed regulation:
BOSS® PU 25 conforms to the requirements of LEED.
Low –Emitting Materials: Adhesives and Sealants.
SCAQMD rule 1168. Complies with USGBC LEED 2009
Credit 4.1: Low-Emitting Materials – Adhesives &
Sealants concerning the VOC-content.
Disclaimer: This technical data sheet replaces all previous versions. The directives contained within this documentation are Accumetric Silicone Pvt Ltd
the result of our experiments and experience, and have been submitted in good faith. Because of the diversity of the
Plot No.17, CMDA’s Industrial Area, Melrosapuram,
materials and substrates, in addition to the great number of possible applications that go beyond our control, we cannot
Sengundram Village, S.P.Koil Post,
accept any responsibility for the results obtained. Further, since the design, quality of the substrate, and processing
conditions are beyond our control, no liability under this publication will be accepted. In every case, it's therefore Chengalpattu – 603 204
recommended to carry out preliminary experiments. BOSS reserves the right to modify its products, without prior notice. indiasales@bossproducts.com
www.bossproducts.in
PAGE 2 OF 2
