`
FC40 Polyurethane Sealant Material Data Sheet
Product Code: RC13102
Product Description
FC40 is a high quality one component polyurethane sealant with a high modulus for a wide range of sealing and
bonding applications.
Characteristics
• Very good applicability
• Permanently elastic after curing
• Very good adhesion on many surfaces
• Excellent resistance to many chemicals
Applications
• Sealing and bonding in marine applications above and below water line.
• Sealing and bonding in caravans and motor homes.
• All sealing and bonding applications in the building and metal industry
• Structural bonding in vibration constructions
Application Examples
• Sealing and bonding in metal constructions
• Sealing of shrinkage joints in concrete floors
• Flexible bonding in container building
• Gluing of roof tiles
Packaging and Colours
Colours: White–Grey–Black (other colours on request)
Packaging: Aluminium cartridge of 310 ML
Shelf life
12 months in unopened packaging in a cool and dry storage place at temperatures between +5°C and +25°C.
Technical Data
Base: Polyurethane
Consistency: Stable Paste
Curing System: Moisture Cure
Skin Formation: ca45 min (20°C/65% relative humidity)
Curing Rate: 3mm/24h (20°C/65% R.H.)
Hardness: 48± Shore A
Shrink: max.6%
Specific Gravity: 1.17
Temperature Resistance: -40°C until +90°C
Elongated at break: >450%
Elasticity Modulus 100%: 0.60 N/mm² (DIN 53504)
Breaking Strength: 2N/mm² (DIN 53504)
Max Allowed Distortion: 15%
The information contained on this product information sheet is to be used as guidance. The advice is given in good faith and does not constitute
any guarantee or recommendation for suitability. The Rubber Company cannot be held liable for any damage caused by incorrect installation.
We hereby reserve the right to change the technical information herewith without notification or prior agreement.
E sales@therubbercompany.com W www.therubbercompany.com T +44 (0) 1794 513 184
The Rubber Company Limited© - Registered in England and Wales
Company Number - 08350831 | VAT Number - GB 156 8355 80
Surfaces
Substrate: Most of the usual building substrates, most metals, polyesters and many plastics.
Not on glass.
State of surface: Clean, dry and free from dust and grease.
Preparation: Apply Primer 100 on porous surfaces.
Joint Size
Min. Width: 2mm in bonding applications
5mm in joints
Max. Width: 10mm in bonding applications
30mm in joints
Min. Depth: 5mm in joints
Recommendation: Joint depth = Joint width
Application
Application method: Manual or pneumatical caulking gun
Application temperature: +5°C to +35°C
Cleaning: Clean with white spirits immediately after application
Finishing: Smoothen joint with a soapy solution before skin forming
Transport Information
Non hazardous for all means of transport.
Labelling
Symbol: None
Risk phrases: None
Safety phrases: None
Contains: Isocyanates
Information
When painted with oxidative drying paints, disturbances in the drying of the paints may occur. Adhesion must be tested
for compatibility by carrying out preliminary trials. Please consider that the hardness and film thickness may impair
elasticity of the sealant, thus the curing reaction proceeds slower and may lead to cracking of the paint.
Avoid direct contact with isocyanate reactive substances, especially alcohol such as spirit, dilutions and cleaning
compounds until the adhesive has obtained full cure. This will prevent the adhesive from curing properly.
Data contained in this document is for information only and is believed to be reliable. The Rubber Company (TRC)
cannot assume responsibility for results obtained by others over whose methods we have no control. It is the user’s
responsibility to determine suitability of the product for any specific purpose and TGP is pleased to provide a sample
upon request.
Before using this product ensure thatyou have been supplied with and have read carefully the following information.
• The hazard label (complying with latest CDG/CPL regulations) applied to the container.
• Material Safety Data Sheet,FC40.
ISO
9001 : 2015
REGISTERED
The information contained on this product information sheet is to be used as guidance. The advice is given in good faith and does not constitute
any guarantee or recommendation for suitability. The Rubber Company cannot be held liable for any damage caused by incorrect installation.
We hereby reserve the right to change the technical information herewith without notification or prior agreement.
E sales@therubbercompany.com W www.therubbercompany.com T +44 (0) 1794 513 184
The Rubber Company Limited - Registered in England and Wales
Company Number - 08350831 | VAT Number - GB 156 8355 80
