TTDDSS.. TTEECCHHNNIICCAALL DDAATTAA SSHHEEEETT
MMAASSTTIICC PPUU vv..2255--0022--22002266
1 / 4
MASTIC PU - POLYURETHANE MASTIC
It is a single component polyurethane mastic that cures rapidly on contact with atmospheric moisture, forming a
hard sealant, elastic and of a medium-high elasticity modulus. For sealing of vertical and horizontal joints. It has
CE marking on the basis of a statement made DoP Declaration of Performance (DoP) conforms to the
regulations UE305/2011.
USES
For application in the following situations:
Sealing of expansion joints or fissures
Make caulking in the joints between horizontal and vertical walls for previous preparations in liquid waterproofing
Genera sealing for building materials: concrete, wood, aluminium, lacquered metal, polyester, glass, PVC,
concrete and clay tiles, stone, ceramic stoneware
Highly recommended for bonding fired clay and concrete tiles.
Can be exposed to UV rays, however, some surface decoloration can happens
NOTE: call our technical department about the application to other substrates or scopes of use
Application temperature 5~35 ºC (41 to 95ºF)
Frying tack 30~60 minutes
Curing total thickness of 3 to 4 mm 24 hours
Elongation at break >600 %
COLORS
Gray
TTDDSS.. TTEECCHHNNIICCAALL DDAATTAA SSHHEEEETT
MMAASSTTIICC PPUU vv..2255--0022--22002266
2 / 4
GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS
SUBSTRATES PREPARATION: The substrates must be clean, even, dry, free of dust, oil, grease, and any
contaminants that could harm bonding. They may be cleaned with, methylethylketone (MEK), acetone, or grease
remover. Apply a primer if necessary. Check the compatibility of the solvent used with the substrates. When using
solvents, extinguish all sources of ignition and carefully follow the safety and handling instructions given by the
manufacturer or supplier. If necessary, rub down metal surfaces beforehand. After rubbing down, the surface should be
cleaned. Allow the substrate to dry after degreasing. We recommend cleaning concrete with a metal brush.
CAULKING: It can be applied by a manual or pneumatic gun. any trace of grease, paint or non-adherent coating must
be removed. After application, use a putty knife to smooth the joint with soapy water. This product should be used within
24 hours of opening the cartridge or sausage; otherwise, the sealant could harden inside. Do not apply at a temperature
under 5 °C. (41ºF). In cold weather, store the cartridges at about 20 °C (68ºF) before use. Avoid any contact with non-
cured MS, hybrid PU or silicone sealants as well as with alcohols or ammonia during curing.In flooring joints, it is
recommended that the sealing width be twice the depth. The maximum permissible width is ±38 mm. If desired, a
backer rod can be placed at the bottom of the joint.
CLEANING:Tools should be cleaned with, MEK or acetone before the sealant has completely cured. After curing,
abrasion is necessary.
PACKAGING
Boxes of 20 ut. (600 cm³ each)
STORAGE AND SHELF LIFE
12 months at temperatures between 5 and 35° C (41 to 95 ºF).Keep away from direct sunlight, extreme heat, cold or
moisture
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Respiratory Protection: When handling or spraying use an air-purifying respirator. Skin protection: Use rubber gloves,
remove immediately after contamination. Wear clean body-covering. Wash thoroughly with soap and water after work
and before eating, drinking, or smoking. Eye / Face: Wear safety goggles to prevent splashing and exposure to particles
in the air. Waste: Waste generation should be avoided or minimized. Incinerate under controlled conditions in
accordance with local laws and national regulations. Re-occupancy of the work site without respiratory equipment is
minimum 24 hours providing the correct ventilation for the area sprayed. Contractors and applicators must comply with
all applicable and appropriate guidelines for storage and safety guidelines.These safety recommendations for handling,
are necessary for the implementation process as well as in the pre and post, on exposure to the loading machinery.
Dispose waste in accordance with star or/and local regulations.
YIELD
Diameter of the application(mm) 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Linear fleet (m) 190 85 47 30 21 15 11 9 7
TTDDSS.. TTEECCHHNNIICCAALL DDAATTAA SSHHEEEETT
MMAASSTTIICC PPUU vv..2255--0022--22002266
3 / 4
TECHNICAL DATA
Appearance pasty
Color Gray
Density ISO 1675 1.18 ± 0.05 g/cm3
Sagging ISO 7390 none
Application temperature 5 ~35 °C
Skin formation time ±70 min
Cure time 3 mm/24 h
Loss of volume ISO 10563 <10%
Tear resistance ISO 8340 modified Pass
Adhesion/cohesion properties of deformation under tension maintained immersion in
No break
water at 28 days ISO 10590 modified
Adhesion/cohesion properties of deformation under-maintained tension, immersion
No break
in saltwater at 28 days ISO 10590 modified
Adhesion/cohesion tensile deformation properties maintained at -30ºC ISO
Pass
8340 modified
Durability ISO 8340/9047/10590 Pass
Modulus at 100 % ISO 8339 ±0.4 MPa
Elongation at break ISO 8339 >500 %
Tear strength DIN 53515 ±10 N/mm
Hardness Shore A/D ( internal test) 35~40 / 9~10
Temperature resistance - 40 ~+80°C (- 40 ~176 °F)
Resistance to dilute acids and bases average
UV resistance medium
Water and salt spray resistance excellent
water-based: yes
Compatibility with paints solvent-based: carry out tests
before hand
modulus at 100 % (ISO 37) :
ca. 0.3 MPa
modulus at break (ISO 37): ca.
Specific data
1.4 MPa
elongation at break (ISO 37) : >
600 %
Results were performed in the laboratory at 23ºC (73ºF) and 50% RH, under controllable conditions. These values may
vary depending on the application, climatology, or substrate conditions.
The information herein is to assist customers in determining whether our products are suitable for their applications. Our products are only intended for sale to
industrial and commercial customers. The customer assumes full responsibility for quality control, testing, and determination of the suitability of products for its
intended application or use.
We warrant that our products will meet our written liquid component specifications. We make no other warranty of any kind, either express or implied, by fact or
law, including any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose since Tecnopol Sistemas S.L.U. does not control the execution, since Tecnopol
Sistemas S.L.U, does not control the execution. Our total liability and customers’ exclusive remedy for all proven claims is the replacement of the nonconforming
TTDDSS.. TTEECCHHNNIICCAALL DDAATTAA SSHHEEEETT
MMAASSTTIICC PPUU vv..2255--0022--22002266
4 / 4
product and in no event shall we be liable for any other damages. While descriptions, designs, data and information contained herein are presented in good faith
and believed to be accurate, they are provided for guidance only. Because many factors may affect processing or application/ use, Tecnopol Sistemas S.L.U.
recommends that the reader make tests to determine the suitability of a product for a particular purpose prior to use.
No warranties of any kind, either expressed or implied, including warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, are made regarding products
described or designs, data or information set forth, or that the products, designs, data or information may be sued without infringing the intellectual property
rights of others. In no case shall the descriptions, information, data or designs provided be considered a part of Tecnopol Sistemas S.L.U. terms and conditions
of sale. Further, the descriptions, designs, data, and information furnished by Tecnopol Sistemas S.L.U. hereunder are given gratis and Tecnopol Sistemas
S.L.U. assumes no obligation or liability for the description, designs, data or information is given or results obtained, all such being given and accepted at the
reader’s risk.
All data furnished refers to standard production using manufacturing testing tolerances. The product user, and not Tecnopol Sistemas S.L.U., is responsible for
determining the suitability and compatibility of our products for the final user’s intended use.
The liability of Tecnopol Sistemas S.L.U.and its affiliates for all claims is limited to the purchase price of the material.
Products may be toxic and require special precautions in handling. Users should obtain detailed information on toxicity, together with proper shipping, handling
and storage procedures, and comply with all applicable safety and environmental standards.
No freedom from any patents or other industrial or intellectual property rights is granted or to be inferred.
