TIKISEAL PU40
1K PU Based Joint Sealant
DESCRIPTION PROPERTIES
TIKISEAL PU40 is ready to use one component Property Value
moisture cured gun grade elastomeric PU joint sealant Colour* White, Black, Grey
complying to ASTM C920 standard specification for Density 1.45 g/ml ± 0.10
elastomeric joint sealants . Skin over time 25 to 45 Minutes
Curing time @ 230C & 50% RH 24 Hour (2 to 3mm)
Tensile Strength (ASTM D412) >1.5 MPa
Once cured, TIKISEAL PU40 forms a highly flexible and
Elongation at Break (ASTM D412) > 500%
durable elastomeric seal that strongly adheres to
Shore A Hardness (ASTM C661) 40
most construction and industrial substrates.
VOC Content < 3%
Application Temperature 5°C to 40°C
ADVANTAGES
Service Temperature -30°C to 100°C
• Permanently elastic over a wide range of Movement Accomodation 30%
temperatures *Standard colors. Specific color can be tailor made to
• Durable, remains unaffected by U.V and weather meet the end user requirement.
conditions
• Non-staining to construction substrates APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS
• Low dirt pick-up post curing SURFACE PREPARATION
• Exhibits good adhesion to many un-primed surface All surfaces coming in contact with TIKISEAL PU40
• Does not support microbial, fungus and mildew should be clean, dry, and free from loose dirt, dust,
growth laitance, oil, grease or any other contaminants, which
• Wide range of colours and excellent smooth finish may impair the adhesion of TIKISEAL PU40.
• Low VOC – environmental friendly
• Single component – quick and ease of application Metal surfaces should be cleaned and degreased.
• Excellent low temperature extrudability
• Cures at ambient temperatures to a tough, elastic, For a neat finish, apply masking tape and remove it
and flexible rubber like material after tooling the sealant and before sealant has
• Resilient - recovers the original width after skinned over.
expansion & contraction without the losing the
surface bond APPLICATION
Cut tip of cartridge / sausage with a sharp knife. Cut
USES nozzle at 45° angle to desire bead-width and apply to
substrate with cartridge gun. Firmly extrude sealant
TIKISEAL PU40 is highly suitable for sealing:
into slot ensuring complete contact with joint faces.
• Expansion and construction joints in rigid pavements
and building structures including facades
Once applied TIKISEAL PU40 should be tooled within
• Internal and external pedestrian ways
30 minutes before skinning occurs to ensure good
• Industrial and warehouse floors
contact with joint faces. It attains tack free time of 35
• Connection and isolation joints
to 60 minutes.
Uncured sealant can be cleaned up with mineral • Water based top coat : OK
spirits. Use approved backing material for joints over • Alkyd resin paint: Use water based undercoat first
10mm deep. • Traditional solvented paint: Use water based
undercoat first
COVERAGE • Traditional oil based paint : Use water based
The number of running meter work done in 600ml undercoat first
sausage of TIKISEAL PU40 sealant, can be calculated • Traditional exterior paint: Use water based gloss
by following formula: - paint as undercoat first
• Cellulose based auto paint : OK
L = 600 / (W x D) • PU based auto paint : OK
Where, *Compatibility data is based on trials carried in in-
L = Length of the joint in linear running meter house laboratory under ideal condition. Carrying of
W= Width of the joint in mm. pre-liminary trials at site is recommended.
D = Depth of the joint in mm.
LIMITATION
GUIDE TO TIKISEAL PU40 COVERAGE* (per pack size
• TIKISEAL PU40 is not suitable for use in areas
of 600ml sausage)
having pool of chlorinated water or salt water,
Joint Size, mm Estimated Length
such as swimming pools, spas, etc.
6 x 6 17.2 meter • TIKISEAL PU40 is not compatible with PE, PP,
10 x 10 6.8 meter Teflon, Neoprene and bituminous surfaces.
20 x 10 3.5 meter • TIKISEAL PU40 is not suitable for use in glazing
*Coverage is approximate and it depends upon the site applications.
conditions and surface porosity at the time of application • TIKISEAL PU40 should not be overcoated with
alkyd resin paint, as it inhibits the curing of the
PAINTING
alkyd paint.
TIKISEAL PU40 is compatible and can be overcoated
with many conventional water based paints, but prior SUPPLY
trial for checking the compatibility of water based
TIKISEAL PU40 is supplied in 600ml Aluminium foil
paints is recommended.
sausage (20 no.s packed in 1 box) and in 310ml plastic
cartridge (25 no.s packed in 1 box).
For overcoating with alkyd paints, use of suitable
water based undercoat is recommended.
STORAGE
TIKISEAL PU40 must be stored above 5°C. Store in a
Paint Type : Suitability*
dry and cool place with temperature below 30°C
• Water based emulsion paint : OK
under the shed and protect from extremes of
• Water based primer sealer : OK
temperature.
• Water based undercoat : OK
SHELF LIFE SAFETY PRECAUTIONS
Shelf life is 12 months when stored as above and in As with all chemical products, care should be taken
original packing. Failure to comply with the during use and storage of TIKISEAL PU40 to avoid
recommended storage conditions may result in contact with eyes, mouth, skin, and foodstuffs until
premature deterioration of the product or packaging. product is fully cured/dried.
*Coverage is approximate and it depends upon the site Uncured adhesive / sealant causes skin and eyes
conditions and surface porosity at the time of application irritation upon contact.
• Avoid contact with eyes, skin and mouth.
• In case of contact with eyes, flush with water
immediately for 15 minutes. If irritation persists,
seek medical attention.
• Keep out of reach of children. Use in well
ventilated areas.
VERSION: R2, 201912
Disclaimer: The technical information, and, in particular, the recommendations relating to the application and end-use of Tiki Tar Danosa (TIKIDAN) products, are given in good
faith based on TIKIDAN's current knowledge and experience of the products when properly stored, handled and applied under normal conditions in accordance with TIKIDAN's
recommendations. The information herein is of a general nature and no assumption can be made as to a product's suitability for a particular use or application and no warranty in
respect of merchantability or of fitness for a particular purpose can be inferred from this information. The user alone is fully responsible for the product’s suitability for the
intended application and purpose. TIKIDAN reserves the right to change the properties of its products.
Note: Field service where provided does not constitute supervisory responsibility. Suggestions made by TIKIDAN either orally or in writing may be followed, modified or rejected by
the owner, engineer or contractor since they, and not TIKIDAN, are responsible for carrying out procedures appropriate to a specific application. TIKIDAN reserves the right to
amend the composition of its material and consequently their prices, without prior notice. For this reason, all orders will be accepted only in accordance with the conditions and
technical specifications in force at the date of order. Users must always refer to the most recent issue of the local Product Data Sheet for the product concerned, copies of which
will be supplied on request.
TIKITAR DANOSA (INDIA) PRIVATE LIMITED
Tiki Tar Estate, Village Road, Bhandup (W), Mumbai - 400 078,
Maharashtra, India. T: +91 22 4126 6699
E: info@tikidan.in | W: www.tikidan.in
