Technical Data Sheet
Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE ADHESIVE
Version: 2-EN Date: 10.07.2025
Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE ADHESIVE
Product description
Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE ADHESIVE is a two-component reactive adhesive based on
polyurethane, intended for connecting metals to each other and to other materials such
as wood, hard PVC and GRP. The adhesive is particularly suitable for gluing corners in the
construction of aluminum windows and doors, as well as containers and vehicles. Choose
Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE ADHESIVE if you produce composite elements from hard PS,
PUR and PVC. Because the adhesive does not contain solvents, it is suitable for bonding
coated and anodized aluminum surfaces. In addition, Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE
ADHESIVE has a hard and durable adhesive joint and exceptional resistance to weather
conditions, which makes it ideal for use in many different industrial fields.
Special characteristics:
• High tensile and shear strength
• Wide adhesion spectrum
• Fast curing
• Good filling characteristics
• Stable
• Can be coloured
• Can be coated
Vi-Pro® PU 2K is used in various industrial fields:
• Window, door and facades construction
• Containers and automotive construction
• Processing of ceramics, artificial stone and natural stone
• General processing of metals
• Processing of concrete and building materials
• Ventilation and air conditioning technology
• Insulation and composite panel technology
• Processing of wood
Application
Preparation
1
Technical Data Sheet
Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE ADHESIVE
Version: 2-EN Date: 10.07.2025
The surfaces of the joined elements must be dry and free from dirt and grease. For
cleaning, we recommend Vi-Pro® Easy To Clean. Avoid using the adhesive at
temperatures below 5°C.
Bonding:
Open the Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE ADHESIVE double insert. Screw on the static mixer.
Then insert the cartridge into the dosing unit. Apply glue evenly to one of the parts to be
joined.
Attention:
When opening the cartridge, after each replacement of the static mixer or after a break in
processing, the first 20 ml of mixed glue should be thrown away. Due to the way the
cartridges are filled, for safety reasons, the first 20 ml of glue should not be used for
gluing.
Curing time
Functional strength is achieved after approximately 4 hours. Final strength is achieved
after 24 hours. High temperatures shorten the hardening time, low temperatures extend
it. For professional use only.
Technical parameters
Chemical base 2-Component Polyurethane, hardener isocyanate (MDI)
Color beige, grey, white
Texture pasty
Density component A = approx. 1,45 g/cm³ DIN53479
component B = approx. 1,70 g/cm³
Mixing ratio A : B = 1 : 1 by volume
Pot life (10/20/30°C) 80/45/30 minutes 100g batch at 20°C
Tensile strength approx.10-16 N/mm²
Elongation at break > 15% DIN53283
Shore hardness D 80 DIN53504
Processing temperature 10 °C to 35 °C
Temperature resistance -30 °C to 90°C
Chemical resistance
Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE ADHESIVE is characterized by good UV stability and good
resistance to weather conditions. Moreover, it is resistant to water, alcohols, oils, gasoline
and diluted alkalis and acids.
2
Technical Data Sheet
Vi-Pro® PU 2K POLYURETHANE ADHESIVE
Version: 2-EN Date: 10.07.2025
Not resistant to aromatic and chlorinated hydrocarbons, concentrated organic and
inorganic acids and bases.
Packaging
Double cartridge 900 g/600 ml, 1 pack = 6 pieces in a box
Storage
Store in a cool and dry place. Unopened containers at least durable: 12 months after
production. Storage temperature: 5°C to 25°C.
Precautions
Material safety data sheets are available upon request. Product Safety Data Sheets are
provided to help customers meet their own handling, safety and disposal needs and those
that may be required by local health and safety regulations. Safety data sheets are
updated regularly, so please request and read the latest version of the safety data sheet
before handling or using any product.
Note to customer
The information provided is true to the best of our knowledge and is based on reliable
tests and practical experience. The specified properties are indicative and therefore do
not constitute specifications. The customer/user should thoroughly test each application
to ensure that the product meets the required parameters. The only warranty is that the
product conforms to the sales specifications in effect at the time of shipment. Your
exclusive remedy for breach of such warranty is limited to a refund of the purchase price
or replacement of any product found to be other than the warranted product. Seller is
not liable for incidental or consequential damages.
More information available at: +48 22 122 85 49 or reach@vi-pro.eu
3
